feat: preference datasets (#673)
NVIDIA-NeMo/RL: docs/guides/dpo.md

## Datasets

Each DPO dataset class is expected to have the following attributes:
1. `formatted_ds`: The dictionary of formatted datasets, where each dataset should be formatted like
```
{
    "context": list of dicts, # The prompt message (including previous turns, if any)
    "completions": list of dicts, # The list of completions
        {
            "rank": int, # The rank of the completion (lower rank is preferred)
            "completion": list of dicts, # The completion message(s)
        }
}
```
2. `task_spec`: The `TaskDataSpec` for this dataset. This should specify the name you choose for this dataset.

> Currently, DPO training supports only two completions (where the lowest rank is preferred and the highest one is rejected), with each completion being a single response. For example:

Reviewer: Could we remove "currently"? We don't plan to ever support more than two completions with DPO, right?

Reviewer 2: Ok with me -- technically it would be possible to support more than two, but I don't think there's any plan for it, so this may give the wrong impression that it's coming soon.

Author: Sounds good to me too, I updated

```
{
    "context": [
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": "What's the capital of France?"
        },
        {
            "role": "assistant",
            "content": "The capital of France is Paris."
        },
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": "Thanks! And what's the capital of Germany?"
        }
    ],
    "completions": [
        {
            "rank": 0,
            "completion": [
                {
                    "role": "assistant",
                    "content": "The capital of Germany is Berlin."
                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "rank": 1,
            "completion": [
                {
                    "role": "assistant",
                    "content": "The capital of Germany is Munich."
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

> NeMo RL supports the `HelpSteer3` dataset. This dataset is downloaded from Hugging Face and preprocessed on-the-fly, so there's no need to provide a path to any datasets on disk.

Reviewer: nit: this kind of makes it sound like we don't support other datasets. Could we reword to something like 

```suggestion
NeMo RL provides a DPO-compatible implementation of the [HelpSteer3](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/RL/blob/main/nemo_rl/data/hf_datasets/helpsteer3.py) dataset as an example. This dataset is downloaded from Hugging Face and preprocessed on-the-fly, so there's no need to provide a path to any datasets on disk.
```

Author: Agreed, I updated

We also provide a [PreferenceDataset](../../nemo_rl/data/hf_datasets/preference_dataset.py) class that is compatible with JSONL-formatted preference datasets. You can modify your config as follows to use such a custom preference dataset:
```
data:
  dataset_name: PreferenceDataset
  train_data_path: <LocalPathToTrainingDataset>
  val_data_path: <LocalPathToValidationDataset>
```
with support for multiple validation sets achieved with:
```
data:
  dataset_name: PreferenceDataset
  train_data_path: <LocalPathToTrainingDataset>
  val_data_paths:
      <NameOfValidationDataset1>: <LocalPathToValidationDataset1>

>       <NameOfValidationDataset2>: <LocalPathToValidationDataset2>

Author: Good point, I updated

```
{
    "context": [
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": "What's the capital of France?"
        },
        {
            "role": "assistant",
            "content": "The capital of France is Paris."
        },
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": "Thanks! And what's the capital of Germany?"
        }
    ],
    "completions": [
        {
            "rank": 0,
            "completion": [
                {
                    "role": "assistant",
                    "content": "The capital of Germany is Berlin."
                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "rank": 1,
            "completion": [
                {
                    "role": "assistant",
                    "content": "The capital of Germany is Munich."
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

NeMo RL supports the `HelpSteer3` dataset. This dataset is downloaded from Hugging Face and preprocessed on-the-fly, so there's no need to provide a path to any datasets on disk.

> We also provide a [PreferenceDataset](../../nemo_rl/data/hf_datasets/preference_dataset.py) class that is compatible with JSONL-formatted preference datasets. You can modify your config as follows:

Author: Agreed, I updated

```
data:
  dataset_name: PreferenceData
  train_data_path: <LocalPathToTrainingDataset>
  val_datasets:
    - dataset_name: PreferenceData
      val_data_name: <NameOfValidationDataset1>
      val_data_path: <LocalPathToValidationDataset1>
    - dataset_name: PreferenceData
      val_data_name: <NameOfValidationDataset2>

>       val_data_path: <LocalPathToValidationDataset2>

Author: Makes sense to me too, I updated

```
Note:

> - If you are using a custom preference dataset for training, you must specify a custom preference dataset for validation.

Author: Agreed, I updated

- If you are using a logger, the prefix used for the custom validation preference dataset will be `validation-<NameOfValidationDataset>`.

> When using `HelpSteer3` as the training dataset, the default validation set is also used and logged under the prefix `validation`. You can replace it with a custom preference dataset as follows:

Author: Agreed, I updated

```
data:
  dataset_name: HelpSteer3
  val_datasets:
    - dataset_name: PreferenceData
      val_data_name: validation
      val_data_path: <LocalPathToValidationDataset>
```

> [DPODataset](../../nemo_rl/data/hf_datasets/dpo.py) class is deprecated. This class is also compatible with JSONL-formatted preference datsets. It assumes train and validation datasets have been split and processed into the expected format offline. The JSONL files should consist of examples with `prompt`, `chosen_response`, and `rejected_response` keys.

Author: Agreed, I updated
